# Cleveland Historical
***
This website is a archival database which talks about historical places around the Cleveland area  and  where  they are located. The  purpose behind Cleveland  Historical  is  so that anybody can research the people ,  monuments  ,  and  places that have  all shaped this  great cities history.  Historical  Cleveland  also  has  a downloadable app  for site  seeing  on  the go. Putting  all these stories together is  part  of a Gis mapping project done by the Cleveland  state university. 

### The  Website Format
The interface  is neatly put together with links and pictures that are  easy to access.  The opening segment  to this  archival website is  the map of Ohio. Including dots all around the Cleveland  area  to represent  the historical  origins  of many  different stories.  There  are  over 600 stories  that one can  access  from the links. After the  interactive  map section you'll  run into  the  recent  stories  and  featured  stories tabs.  Since  there  are  so many  stories  that  are  available  to  look  at,  this gives the  visitor a chance to find some topics  that are  the most popular.  Some of these stories range anywhere from  the Jazz Temples to Brewing  companies  who called  Cleveland home.  Each story has it's own excerpt  of history included  with  multiple  snapshots  of what those places looked like in it's  respected time period. The  most important aspect of this site is  the tour tab. The creators message for this app  was to get Clevelands history  at your fingertips. When you are out and  about on  a tour, you would be able to pull up  whatever site you are visiting  to get some scholarly knowledge.

### Audience
The  group that  was intended for this historical  app would  be anyone interested  in the rich history of Cleveland  and  it's surrounding area. Thus why there is a section for  different  tours  up and  around these historical  sites. When  one  is on the app they  could  pull  up the  site  they  are visiting and have their own tour guide in the palm of  their  hand.

### About Cleveland Historical 
There are  two parts of this website to  access  the  600  plus  articles. The  main  feature  is  the  big  map of  Ohio.  There are hundreds of individual dots scattered around the map. Unless it  happened in the same  area, then the  story  shares an  dot.  Clicking  on this  dot  pulls up the place  or  event that happened in  that particular  area. These  dots  are  filled  with  historical stories.  Making this a  very informative site for  Cleveland history. All the information  collected is either from  Universities around  the state or public  archives that  are  accessible. Since this  website  was put together by scholarly sources in the  area,  it makes the  information  given  very credible. The other way to access all of these very interesting  stories is to check through the  featured and most recent section. This way you can read and learn about the most popular sites out of the hundreds that are listed. Also  making their  app  available  via apple app  store  and  Google  play store  makes this  accessible to almost anybody now a days. Back  when  half  of  these  stories came  about,  not nearly as  much people  were able to access all this information.  Let alone  accessing  all of it on one website. This helps  take a huge step  for digital history. Everything  is going electronic   now a days in the history world. The Cleveland  Historical  website and app fits right in with the movement that is happening right before our eyes. 

### The Creators of Cleveland Historical 
The 600 odd stories that are included in this website was put together by a surrounding university in the area. The main contributor is the Center for public history and digital humanities  at The Cleveland State University. Graduate students collected all the pictures and  data from personal research and outside sources willing to continue to the process.  Other sources that helped create this masterpiece ranges from Cleveland public library, western reserve historical society,  and  Cleveland regional  oral history collection. 

### Conclusion
Cleveland state university provides a immersive website in  which  you  can  learn about history from the beginning  of times.  The available tours in place are there to line  up with the hundreds of stories that are archived through this  system.  Also having an app in place so that you can have this extensive history at  your fingertips.  This is the main goal for gis mapping  projects. Gather hard data from the times of no online recording, and making it  available  to  everyone with  internet and  or hand held cellular device.
